In this video I'll demonstrate the single sign on service of the center server appliance and so let's
go ahead and start by just pointing out that I am currently logged in as administrator at least ferret
out local.
This is my single sign on Administrator account and so because I'm logged in as that user I have the
ability to go here under administration and I can go to a single seinen and I can do things like create
new identity sources and you can see here there is a built in identity source that's already been created
called VSD for that local.
Now this is an identity source that is local to the V Center server and by identity source.
It's simply a repository of usernames and passwords.
So if I decide later on I want to start creating roles and permissions I can create those roles and
permissions for the users that are contained within my identity sources.
So I may want to just use divvies for it at local domain but probably not in most cases.
We're going to add some sort of identity source and most of the time it's going to be active directory.
And we see also we've got active directory as an old app server supported here that's used to support
some legacy environments.
So we're going to stick with integrated windows authentication but it also supports open ended up as
an identity source as well.
I'm going to go ahead and hit Next here and what it's going to tell me is that my single sign on server
is not currently joined to a domain I can't add active directories and identity source without joining
my single sign on server to a domain.
So I'm going to go ahead join my domain is going to be lapped up local username is going to be administrator
whatever my domain admin credentials are.
That is what I'm going to use here and I'll go ahead and hit OK.
And now what I need to do is I need to actually reboot my V Center server.
You can't join the domain without rebooting the sender chevaux.
So I'm going to go ahead and click on actions here and go ahead and reboot my V Center shover and I'll
pause the recording for a moment while this happens and then we'll come back and we'll take a look to
validate that our center server has been successfully joined to our active directory domain.
OK.
So my reboot of the center is now complete.
So I'm going to go ahead and log back in and validate that we have successfully joined the domain.
We can verify that the center has been successfully joined to the domain under our administration screen.
And if we go down to deployment and system configuration we can click on notes pick our Precentor server
and verify that yes it has been successfully joined to an active directory domain.
So we're in great shape here are our the center instances now joined to the domain.
So I'm going to go right back to the administration screen and under single sign on our click configuration.
And now now go ahead and add a new identity source and I'll choose Active Directory integrated windows
authentication.
I'll what next.
And here's the domain name Lab. that local and I'm going to use the machine account to join the domain.
I'll finish.
And there we go.
We now have active directory as a possible identity source within single sign on.
So now if we go ahead and go over to our users and groups let's take a quick look around.
Here's the built in VSE ferret out local domain.
And is our built in single sign on administrator administrator at least for non-local in our dropdown.
We'll now also see labrat local as a domain and we'll be able to see usernames from the lab dot local
domain.
And so here's the administrator at Lab local that's the active directory account that I want to focus
on for the moment.
And so let's go ahead and head over here to rolls under Access control and under administrator you can
see we have some users that are straight from our views for at out local domain and under Read-Only
we can see the users that have that permission.
And so I can also see who has the no access role we have all these built in roles we have all the sambil
roles.
Let's go all the way to hostes in Klosters and I'm going to give one of my active directory users some
permissions.
So here at the V Center server level I'm going to go to permissions and I'm going to create a new permission
and I'm going to give the administrator role on the center server and all of the Vee's center server
child objects including all my hosts and Klosters and V-Amp and data stores I'm going to choose a user
from my laptop local domain administrator user.
I'll add and I'll hit OK.
And now I've just created a permission for administrator app lab local That gives it administrator privileges
throughout my entire environment.
And I'll go ahead and hit OK here and then I'm just going to log out.
And take a moment to validate that my identity source is actually working.
So I'll log in as administrator at Lab local with my password.
And let's just make sure that we have the full administrator set of permissions.
Once we actually get into the environment here now one of the first things you might notice is it looks
a little bit different.
Right.
Notice that the Vee's for a web client layout is in the defaults.
And when I log in as Administrator Vee's for it out local I've already actually removed some of these
little panes here to give myself more room and I've unpinned the work in progress pain I've unpinned
the alarm's pain.
But you can see we're in here and I have permissions I can do things like place a host in maintenance
mode and there's no way I would be able to do that if I didn't have the appropriate permissions.
So let's test this out by placing a host in the maintenance mode and then we'll take the host out of
maintenance.
So there we go.
We've now joined Arvi center server to an active directory domain and we've set that active directory
domain up as an identity source.
We've created some permissions for one of those active directory users and we validated that those permissions
are actually working.